Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first in the CBS television series, Presidential
Timber, appearing on this platform tonight, a candidate for the Democratic nomination
for President, Senator Estes Kefover of Tennessee.
But first, at first, the campaign song sung by Miss Trudy Adams, the Senator from Tennessee.
There's a man that country is calling to preserve democracy.
He's the man whose distance is lead us.
He's the Senator from Tennessee.
Estes Kefover's our selection for the US presidency.
So let's give our approval to the Senator from Tennessee.
All the Democrats in the nation is the one to nominate.
Because he's won the most admiration.
He's a man who really is great, where the Koon skinned Kef has a symbol.
He's made friends with you and me.
So let's give a lease on the White House to the Senator from Tennessee.
Here's the Senator from Tennessee.
Now I'd like you to meet the moderator of this series, the celebrated CBS television reporter, Robert Proud.
Bob?
Our greetings, greetings.
Good evening and welcome to Presidential Timber, the television open house,
which invites you all to meet the candidates in the method which the candidates themselves choose.
And Presidential Timber welcomes as our first guest in this new series,
the first declared candidate for the Democratic nomination,
the victor and the primaries of New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Nebraska,
the Democratic Senator from Tennessee, Senator Estes Kefover.
On the platform with the Senator, his charming wife,
Mrs. Estes Kefover and his father, Mr. RC Kefover.
Senator Kefover went to Washington more than 13 years ago.
It was back in 1939 that he first came to Washington as a representative from Tennessee,
that is. And we reporters began to take him very seriously, indeed.
We took a lot of serious notice when he started talking about reorganizing the government,
streamlining Congress, bringing the old body up to date and making it easier, you know,
for the legislative branch and the executive branch of the government to work together a little bit
instead of fighting together a little bit. The Kuhnskin cap didn't enter the picture until somewhat
later. In 1948, Representative Kefover went back to Tennessee to run for Senator against the
powerful forces of boss Krump in Tennessee, in a campaign which began with practically everyone
saying Estes Kefover just doesn't have a chance. When Representative Kefover invaded boss Krump's
home grounds in Memphis, Krump published a full-page advertisement in every newspaper in the
state of Tennessee saying Estes Kefover assumes the role of a pet coon. The answer came at a rally
in Memphis when Representative Kefover put on a Kuhnskin cap and announced, proudly,
I may have rings on my tail, but I do not have a ring through my nose and I am not boss Krump's pet
coon. He won the election, of course. Now, in Washington, Senator Kefover is served on the Judiciary
Committee on the Senate Armed Services Watchdog Committee, but the committee assigned what
that brought his face and his voice into the American home just about everywhere was the
chairmanship of the Senate Crime Investigating Committee. And now here, a recorded on film is one
of the many dramatic moments of that crime committee hearing. I tell you, would you say whether or not
you are familiar with the testimony given yesterday, I met the fanfist McLaughlin. I refused the answer
to the question when there are probably times comes I would have plenty to say.
Well, the chairman directs you to answer the question, Mr. Ristell.
At this particular moment, I will not. What do you refuse to follow the direction of the chair?
Absolutely. The chair directs you to answer the question and to answer such other questions as
it will be asked this afternoon. I still refuse.
And I think it's only fair to tell you that under those circumstances, I've just
consulted with Senator Tulby, we will have to ask for your arrest by the United States Senate to
bring you in to testify and we'll also have to ask for a contempt for seating against you.
I want to tell you that right now, Mr. Woolf and Mr. Stello, what we expect to do. We don't expect to
have a witness who appears here in very good physical condition,
asking for an indefinite postponement for some time when the committee will be out of operation,
when he's quite apparent that he's able to at least testify some.
We'll co-operate with you if this voice gets badly, bad, we'll co-operate with you, but
to have anybody tempted to fire the committee and the manner that Mr. Stello is trying to do,
will you, as ever, resource in our command to see that he's brought to contempt and that he's
arrested by the United States Senate. That's understood? I'm quite sure that we can understand that.
You are in the situation, by the way. Yeah. How has the witness been served as subpoena?
Yes. And you remain under subpoena, subject to further order of the committee.
I'll be calling George White.
Here in New York, right now, tonight, a jury is deliberating the case of Frank Castello,
charged with contempt of the United States Senate as a result of the hearing we just saw.
Our story moves to January of this year in Washington, D.C. when Senator Keyfauvers stood up
at a microphone and made this announcement. I am a candidate for the Democratic nomination for
President of the United States.
Not a candidate for any other office. I'm going to work hard, very hard to win.
And I am in until the finish. I regarded as the right of the American people to have as
wide a choice as possible in selecting their leaders. There is a place and a great need
for new blood and new ideas in both parties.
Senator Keyfauvers was in the race and he meant to run a real race, but not everyone realized
just how serious he was until he began that tour, traveling up and down the state of New Hampshire
before the primary election three and a half weeks ago.
Senator, how is the campaign going?
Well, Mr. Gilbert, I think we are picking up strength all the time. I'm beginning to be very much
encouraged about the outlook up here. We have traveled over the state pretty well in the last
few days. And of course, we have some more days to go. The people have certainly been courteous.
They've given us the hearing. They're interested very much in the problems of today.
I find a great response to the ideas and issues that we have presented.
So, particularly, it's encouraging me to see the young people, young men and women who are
taking part in the active interest in our campaign. We haven't been a great campaign organization,
but I always enjoy getting out and just talking with the people, as you know.
And I find that they've been very receptive.
Hi, boys, how are you all?
What am I going to do? Sign this?
Aren't these fine-looking boys and girls?
I bet they're all Democrats, too.
I can tell he's a Democrat.
This is a Wisconsin coup, you're convicted to take a lot.
Yeah.
To take it on.
The original coup in town in Tennessee, the tail of just a part,
and it doesn't come on.
Well, we've seen just a little bit of that rugged tour.
There a new hamster.
And I'm sure the question has often come to all of us.
What's it like to be a traveling candidate?
And also, what's it like to be a traveling candidate's wife?
And I'd like to ask Mrs. Kefoffer to step up and discuss it with us for a little bit.
Mrs. Kefoffer, would you?
That must be us.
That must be pretty rugged, isn't it?
Traveling around like that?
Tell us about it.
What are the problems of being a candidate's wife on an arduous trip like that?
Well, there are plenty of problems.
As you know, we travel pretty quickly.
So you can imagine the sort of thing that happens to you.
And you're going at that speed.
Try to go to as many towns each day and see as many people as it's possible to see.
It's the kind of vacation, isn't it?
Maybe you're idea of a vacation.
Lots of sleep and taking it easy, no?
No, we find the days are very long and the nights are very short.
You may catch up with you or you have troubles with that and all that stuff.
Oh, we have the usual troubles.
That are laundry problems, too.
It might not be interested in that.
Oh, I certainly am.
Tell us about the laundry problem.
Well, there are never any shorts when we need them.
And we never know exactly where they are.
Knowing my husband's pretty big man, you know?
He needs a size 17 and 36 sleeve.
It's awful.
And the only thing we can find in the stores around seem to be
small of a shirt and he's got a gulps and we do it like this,
the button's pop.
It's kind of bad.
And it's always my fault.
How about the children?
They're too small to go along, aren't they?
Oh, goodness yes.
They couldn't keep up the speed and they just be a lot more trouble.
They're pretty small anyway.
They like to them.
You tell the graph come on.
Well, when we get in and time at night, we call them up.
We don't get home on weekends.
We always call them on Sundays and have a good chat with them.
They're eager to talk to you.
Recognize your voice and all that.
Well, they're not half as eager as we are.
Last Sunday I called and so thrilled to hear their voices.
And they said, hurry up, mommy.
We want to go to the zoo.
Can't you talk to somebody else?
Glad to see you when you get home at last, I bet.
Well, the big ones were today, but it practically broke my heart.
The baby didn't recognize me.
Really?
How long did it take before the baby was born?
Well, I took all my hat and kind of rumbled up my hair and hope for the best.
She still didn't recognize me.
I see you're carrying a copy of Senator Kefover's book.
A long tell me, is it worse being the wife of a traveling candidate than the wife of an author writing a book?
Which is worse?
Well, when he was writing this book, I thought that was the worst.
Now I think I changed my mind a little bit.
What kind of reception do you get?
Everybody knows Senator Kefover now when you go out to small towns out in the country, don't they?
Well, wherever television has been, they seem to know him pretty well.
Particularly when I find that women always, they must have watched television a lot more than the man that,
because they always seem to recognize him.
I see the true man.
You know, a lot of people want to know just how you pronounce your name, Mrs. Kefover.
Would you go under that a little bit?
Well, love, listen, and as to his father, he's 81 year old father's over here,
and I think he could tell you a lot more about that.
Well, fine, bring him up.
I'm just asking for Sweden to come along.
You can call him.
Delighted to see you, sir.
Tell us a little bit about how you pronounce this name now.
Well, we call it Kefover.
Kefover.
Most any kind of pronunciation down south up north, I think they call it Kefover.
As a matter of fact, we originated up here about
Baltimore, my greatest south, after the Revolutionary War.
Much southern people don't seem to have very much trouble with it.
It seems to me like the Aggies in the Northern people ought to be pretty well used to the name.
By now, there's been a pubs house enough, I think, and see it in print.
They get acquainted with it, I guess.
They spell it right off the road.
Yeah, they spell it, it's a rule right now.
Right about now.
Now, did your son get interested in politics at a very early age,
was to keep on going?
Well, yes, he was always interested in things of that kind.
He was always interested in any activities around the town,
especially around the courthouse and trials and things of that kind.
From Infancyway, he's always said that he was going to be a lawyer,
and I think he's followed it up pretty well.
Unless he's quitting the law business now, I just don't know.
I'd like to have a look inside this photographic album,
if you wouldn't mind, would you open it?
Let's take a look.
I'd like to see that.
Oh, now tell us about this picture.
Well, there's a picture there, a whole younger people over a family.
My son and his lovely wife and his four children there, and these two dogs.
That's what's the name of the dog's name?
The Heidi and Barney.
Oh, the dog.
I see.
Oh, there's a latest model of a rubber-tired cart
with a Chetland pony, my wife and three children or two boys,
and my oldest daughter.
You look good in that.
Yeah, I'm proud of that.
Turn out, you know what?
I thought that was the last word to a day.
Oh, wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
And then when we came on, you know,
after I got over the bus, it was good to eat.
Why, we had put pretty good to a rather bulk this modern limousine.
Oh, you see that?
That was one of the Ford 19 and 809
products, you know.
Going all the fast, then.
And we were going very fast then.
We've 20 miles an hour of schedule and wife death, never.
And also the mules and horses and might near all the people
that we'd meet in the road.
We went through quite a siege with that cart.
I bet you did.
I didn't think it'd go to the easy.
It would be another man in rural county.
He would begin a fool by one, but they seemed like it did.
Yes, a few of them did that.
Two of them did.
I'll tell us about that.
That's the madam and two boys.
And this man's in my oldest daughter.
This is Mr. Estor right here.
He is starting out there on his lull.
The degree.
Well, the family's going up now, no?
Yes, they're going up here.
There's the boy and the two daughters.
That's true.
That's just wasn't in the Senate, was it?
No, no, that little while before we got into the even the house.
Oh, yes.
Yeah, here he is out in there.
It looks like in a hay-feeler picking grass or something.
But evidently, that must be referring to his football leaves
in which they call him a larns side down at the University of Tennessee.
Yes, it was a story around that he was in the Old America.
Well, I know.
I'll just have to let him tell that.
Yeah?
If you're going to talk about my football,
how many of you being in Old America now,
I think I'd better get up and explain because...
Yeah, I'll be fine.
I'd like to have him cranked.
Go right ahead.
Well, Bob, the truth about that is that back in the 20s,
when I attended the University of Tennessee,
I did go out for football.
And after a very strenious effort,
I made the second team.
They are always what is known as a bench warmer.
When we had some easy game, I'd get to play in the last quarter.
But as time went on in 1936, I ran for the State Senate,
and I found that much to my surprise,
that my campaign managers had picked me off the bench,
and it put me on the first team as one of the best tackles
the University of Tennessee had ever produced.
Then in 1938, I ran for the House of Representatives,
and I found that in that campaign,
that my political managers had not only put me on the first team,
but I had made the old Southern Conference team during that time.
Then in 1948, our political platform had worked so well
that I found that my political manager not only had me on the first team
and an old Southern tackle,
but during that campaign, I made the Walter Camps.
First, all American is one of the best tackles I've ever had been.
So that's the story of my football experience.
Bob, am I supposed to make a talk now or what then?
Yes, this is the time. You go right ahead.
We'd like to hear what you have to say.
I think you have something to say in addition to football, don't you, Senator?
Yes, I would like Bob to say a few words.
And I want to talk a little bit tonight about democracy.
I think the cure for our yields is more democracy and not less democracy in this country.
As ours is the government all far and by the people,
it must function in terms of the people's understanding.
There is no problem beyond the understanding of the people if they have the facts.
It is therefore the duty of the government to tell the people frequently, conscientiously and
clearly the facts on all questions of the day.
Because I believe this and I believe it sincerely,
I'm here tonight to tell you very briefly how I stand on some of the issues facing the American people.
The greatest question of our time is of course peace.
To achieve peace, we must be the vital leaders of the democratic nations of the world.
And we cannot do this by talk alone.
We must do it by building a firm democracy at home.
Everything that I have done in my 14 years in the Congress has been designed to strengthen
and vitalize democracy, both at home and in the world.
I sincerely believe we can achieve peace if we keep our wits about us,
if we do not give way to hysteria, and if we work together with goodwill.
Anyone who undermines that goodwill by setting neighbor against neighbor,
by innuendo, by vague charges, is an enemy of democracy.
He is against everything that America stands for.
Well, a lot of people have said this and have complained about it.
As a member of the United States Senate, I have tried to do something about it.
I have sponsored two resolutions.
One of them is to set up a code of conduct for congressional committees.
The other is to give any person the right to answer back if he is attacked on the floor of Congress,
the right of self-defense.
Democracy cannot function without an informed, intelligent citizen.
In a democracy, it is the minds of all of the people that set the policies.
At least that's the way it should be.
A lot of people have said this too, but I've been trying to do something about it.
As a member of both the House and later the Senate,
I have sponsored a bill to establish a report and question period on the floor of Congress.
During this time, the heads of the executive agencies would appear,
explain their policies, what they have been doing,
and members of Congress would have an opportunity of questioning them.
This would establish better lia's on an understanding as a result of face-to-face discussions
between Cabinet members and members of Congress.
I also have proposed that these sessions should be covered by television, by radio, and by the press,
so that the entire nation can look at and listen in at what we in government are doing.
This would serve to keep the people more fully informed.
Of course, it goes without saying that if we are going to have
all the people participating in the decisions of government,
we must have an educated people.
This too, I have tried to do something about.
I've tried to do it through federal aid for education,
having sponsored bills for this purpose both in the House of Representatives
and later in the Senate.
If democracy is going to function, it must be a clean democracy.
All of you know what was done by the Senate Crime Investigating Committee.
The Crime Committee explores the corruption that existed.
We also showed the social causes which produce corruption.
We found them in the lack of opportunity for a good home life,
the lack of an education, and the lack of economic security.
We found them in the lack of recreational facilities for our children.
Throughout my years in Congress, both in the House and in the United States Senate
before the Crime Committee ever came into being,
I supported legislation to sweep aside the slums
and to replace them with homes,
clean, and with life,
and air and space surrounding them where children could play.
I have always supported the great legislation to establish and to extend social security.
As a member of Congress for the past 14 years,
I've tried to do something about efficiency in government.
I have sponsored reorganization plans.
I have tried to arouse the people of the country to the need of these congressional reforms
with my book, 20th Century Congress.
A vital democracy must be conducted efficiently and economically.
We are going to achieve great economies until we do something and settle this problem of peace.
Because almost two-thirds of our federal budget goes to the greed of war.
But even now, we can achieve some economies by cutting out waste in our military budget.
And as a member of the so-called Senate Armed Services Watchdog Committee,
I've been trying to do just that.
The people's elected representatives should continue to exercise direct and full control
over the expenditures of our federal establishments.
To this end, I am supporting a proposal to give Congress adequate tools,
adequate controls to deal with the budget.
As budgets are now made, they are bound to contain much padding and much water.
I would squeeze out all the water and get down to bedrock.
All Americans can take pride and comfort in the economic and social gains that we have made during
the last 20 years under democratic administrations.
These have made us stronger.
But we have a long way to go before we achieve the standards of education,
health, housing, social security, resource development,
and equality of opportunity to which the people of this most productive country in the world
are surely entitled.
And here I'm talking about all of the people,
women and men, the poor and the rich, city folks and farmers.
And as my friend Nathan Strauss has said in his little, good little book,
the descendants of those who crossed on slave ships,
as well as the areas of those who came over on the Mayflower.
The task before us is formidable, but there is every reason for hope.
This country has never failed.
We must rekindle our faith in ourselves and our free and democratic way of life.
We need a new dedication to the liberal and progressive principles upon which this nation was founded.
We need new zeal for honor and for virtue.
All of us need more of the enthusiasm, the imagination and the idealism of America in its youth.
America has emerged from isolation and grown great.
They accepted and respected leader of the free world
under the leadership of the Democratic Party.
And we cannot turn back the clocks.
It is my firm belief that we shall go farmer to higher goals under the Democratic Party.
The Democratic Party is endeavoring earnestly to vindicate the high purposes and the noble
principles of our constitution, liberty and opportunity and equality for all.
That is what I stand for.
That is what I have the hope of the honor of leading our party to victory
in the pursuit of these goals this year.
I hope that you will support me.
And now ladies and gentlemen are there any questions that any of you wish to ask.
You have a question, sir?
Yes.
Are your name please?
Joseph McCleen.
And your occupation, Mr. McCleen.
Attorney.
Now what's your question?
Senator of vital interest to me in this county campaign is a civil rights issue.
Just how do you stand on civil rights?
Mr. McLean, all of my life I wanted to better relationships between people of all racist classes and creeds.
I don't want anybody's opportunity in the United States penalized or limited because of their race color or
creed or where their ancestors came from.
I fought against the poll tax bill when I first came to the House.
I want us to have fair employment practices.
My personal conviction is that we will get more on a voluntary educational
for a swaisy basis than we will by legislative five.
But that is a matter I think for the Democratic National Committee and for the states to decide
the National Committee has for the Democratic Party.
But in any event I do not believe as a matter of principle in the filibuster.
I want the issue determined on its merits in the floor of the House.
And I'm going to support the position of the Democratic Party in that matter.
One more question.
Do you have a question, sir?
Yes, I do.
I'm John Adam.
Decemone.
And your other relations.
Senator, like most veterans, I'm interested in peace.
Would you meet Stalin anywhere in the world or except Washington in the interest of security?
Well, sir, I think if there is a reasonable hope for working out a piece,
a settlement of the difficulty with the communists so that we can have peace,
I don't think anybody ought to stand on their honor.
I mean, on their dignity, I think we ought to do everything possible.
But we don't want to have a, I wouldn't want to have a conference with Stalin or anybody else
if we're just going to lead us into another trap or a bad situation.
I think if after this condition were surveyed through the United Nations,
that there were reasonable guarantees that anything agreed upon would be carried out.
But then of course, we ought to have any conferences that we could have.
But I think that the iron curtain is going to have to come down before we're going to get very far in that direction.
And I'll look over and say you probably want to talk about the iron curtain.
Senator, it's time to ring down the curtain on this first edition of Presidential Timber in 1952 series.
See you all the same time next week. Good night.
This is the first and the CDS television series,
Presidential Pimper, a nice guest for Senator Estes Keephoff,
our candidate for the Democratic nomination for president.
Next week Robert Krop will have his guest, Governor Earl Warren of California,
candidate for the Republican nomination for president.
This is the CBS television network.